# @equinor/rdf-graph - For developers 🥷

## Setup of development environment

[Node.js LTS](https://nodejs.org) version is required.

```sh
# Make sure you are on version 8 of the npm CLI
$ node -v && npm -v
v16.14.0
8.31.0

#  Install npm if not already installed
npm install --global npm

# Install project dependencies
npm i

# Run a local dev version of Storybook
npm run dev
```

## Lefthook - Git hooks manager

Hooks are defined in `lefthook.yml`. You may need to run `git config --unset core.hooksPath` locally (once) to clear the previously used husky path.

## Code quality

The project is set up with TypeScript, Eslint, Prettier, and the following is run when validating each pull request:

```sh
npm run validateCode
```

## Testing

We write unit tests on critical functionality. Test files should suffixed by `*.test.tsx`.

```sh
npm run test
```

## Construction

```sh
 # Build Storybook static files, and deploy for Vercel for pull requests and merging for main
npm run build:storybook

# Build library (excluding Storybook) - This step is executed before `npm publish`
npm run build:lib
```

## PR's & Package Release

This repo uses [Release Please](https://github.com/googleapis/release-please) for automating CHANGELOG generation, the creation of GitHub releases, and version bumping. Release Please assumes you are using [Conventional Commit messages](https://www.conventionalcommits.org).

To bump version and release the package to [npmjs.com/package/@equinor/rdf-graph](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@equinor/rdf-graph), squash merge a pull request to "main". Make sure the commit message follows the Conventional Commit specification. A new release PR will be created automatically, and when this PR is merged, a github release will created and the CHANGELOG.md will be updated. A successful github release triggers the deployment of the package.

The most important commit message prefixes you should have in mind are:

- **fix:** which represents bug fixes, and correlates to a **SemVer PATCH**.
- **feat:** which represents a new feature, and correlates to a **SemVer MINOR**.
- **feat!:, or fix!:, refactor!:, etc.,** which represent a breaking change (indicated by the !) and will result in a **SemVer MAJOR**.

For any prefix besides **feat**, **SemVer PATCH** version is used for bumps unless there is a breaking change.

Note that the autogenerated release PR will update automatically when a new commit is pushed to main.

### Commit Message Prefixes

- **feat:** A new feature
- **fix:** A bug fix
- **docs:** Documentation only changes
- **style:** Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, missing semi-colons, etc)
- **refactor:** A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
- **perf:** A code change that improves performance
- **test:** Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests
- **build:** Changes that affect the build system or external dependencies (example scopes: vite, npm)
- **ci:** Changes to our CI configuration files and scripts (example scopes: Travis, Circle, BrowserStack, SauceLabs)
- **chore:** Other changes that don't modify src or test files
- **revert:** Reverts a previous commit

### Commit Message Examples

- feat(grpc): add new endpoint
- refactor: combine class A and class B
- ci: update pull request linter
- style: change format of strings
- feat!: rename core react component prop
